README.md, before:

# PyDrocsid Bot Template

## Development
### Prerequisites
- [Python](https://python.org/) >=3.9
- [Pipenv](https://github.com/pypa/pipenv/)
- [Git](https://git-scm.com/)
- [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) (recommended)
- [docker-compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/) (recommended)
- [PyCharm Community/Professional](https://www.jetbrains.com/pycharm/) (recommended)

### Setup dependencies

After you have cloned the repository, you should create a virtual environment and install all dependencies. For this you can use the following command:

```
pipenv install --dev
```

### Environment variables 
To set the required environment variables it is necessary to create a file named `.env` in the root directory. If you need a token, generate one by following these instructions: [Creating a Bot Account](https://discordpy.readthedocs.io/en/latest/discord.html) (Note you need to enable the options under `Privileged Gateway Intents`)

```
TOKEN=xxx
```

### Project structure 

Inside the project you can find all bot features (like the mod tools) in the `cogs` directory. 
The database is represented by the models, which can be found in the `models` directory. 
For translations we use a `.yml` file which can be found in the `translations` directory.

```
Project
│
└───morpheushelper  
│   └───cogs
│   │    │   adventofcode.py
│   │    │   automod.py
│   │        ...
|   |
│   └───models
│        │   allowed_invite.py
│        │   aoc_link.py
│            ...
|
└───translations
    │   en.yml
        ...
```

### PyCharm configuration 

- Open PyCharm and go to `Settings` ➔ `Project: MorpheusHelper` ➔ `Python Interpreter`
- Open the menu `Python Interpreter` and click on `Show All...`
- Click on the plus symbol 
- Click on `Pipenv Environment`
- Select `Python 3.9` as `Base interpreter`
- Confirm with `OK`
- Change the working directory to root path  ➔ `Edit Configurations`  ➔ `Working directory`


Finally, please remember to mark the `morpheushelper` directory as `Sources Root` (right click on `morpheushelper` ➔ `Mark Directory as` ➔ `Sources Root`).


## Installation instructions

### using docker
```bash
# clone git repository
git clone https://github.com/Defelo/MorpheusHelper

# build docker image
sudo docker build -t defelo/morpheushelper MorpheusHelper

# adjust the docker-compose.yml file (e.g. with your discord token)
vim MorpheusHelper/docker-compose.yml

# start database and bot using docker-compose
sudo docker-compose -f MorpheusHelper/docker-compose.yml up -d
```

### local installation
```bash
# install pipenv
pip3 install pipenv

# create virtual environment and install requirements
pipenv install

# start the bot
pipenv run bot
```

### Environment variables
| Variable Name |                                   Description                                   | Default Value |
|:--------------|:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:--------------|
| TOKEN         | Discord Bot Token                                                               |               |
| LOG_LEVEL     | one of `DEBUG`, `INFO`, `WARNING`, `ERROR`, `CRITICAL`                          | `INFO`        |
| DB_HOST       | Hostname of the database server                                                 | `localhost`   |
| DB_PORT       | Port on which the database server is running                                    | `3306`        |
| DB_DATABASE   | Name of the database in which morpheushelper should store data.                 | `test`        |
| DB_USER       | Username for the database account                                               | `test`        |
| DB_PASSWORD   | Password for the database account                                               | `test`        |
| GITHUB_TOKEN  | GitHub Personal Access Token (PAT) with public access                           |               |
| SENTRY_DSN    | [Optional] Sentry DSN for logging                                               |               |
| OWNER_ID      | [Optional] Discord User ID of the person who should recieve status information. |               |
| DISABLED_COGS | [Optional] Cogs you'd like to disable.                                          |               |
| AOC_SESSION   | [Optional] Session cookie of the AOC Website                                    |               |

Commit message:

Added template instructions to readme

README.md, after:

# PyDrocsid Bot Template

## Template Instructions
- [ ] Adjust name, repository and author in [config.yml](https://github.com/PyDrocsid/template/blob/develop/config.yml)
- [ ] Replace the banner in [bot/pydrocsid_bot.py#L19](https://github.com/PyDrocsid/template/blob/develop/bot/pydrocsid_bot.py#L19). You can generate one on [this website](http://www.patorjk.com/software/taag/#p=display&f=Slant&t=PyDrocsid%20Bot).
- [ ] Adjust repository in [Dockerfile#L21](https://github.com/PyDrocsid/template/blob/develop/Dockerfile#L21)
- [ ] Adjust docker image tags in [.github/workflows/ci.yml#L9](https://github.com/PyDrocsid/template/blob/develop/.github/workflows/ci.yml#L9)
- [ ] Enable push to docker registries in [.github/workflows/ci.yml#L158](https://github.com/PyDrocsid/template/blob/develop/.github/workflows/ci.yml#L158)
- [ ] Add reviewers in [.github/dependabot.yml](https://github.com/PyDrocsid/template/blob/develop/.github/dependabot.yaml)
- [ ] Adjust this [README.md](https://github.com/PyDrocsid/template/blob/develop/README.md) and remove this section

## Development
### Prerequisites
- [Python](https://python.org/) >=3.9
- [Pipenv](https://github.com/pypa/pipenv/)
- [Git](https://git-scm.com/)
- [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) (recommended)
- [docker-compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/) (recommended)
- [PyCharm Community/Professional](https://www.jetbrains.com/pycharm/) (recommended)

### Setup dependencies

After you have cloned the repository, you should create a virtual environment and install all dependencies. For this you can use the following command:

```
pipenv install --dev
```

### Environment variables 
To set the required environment variables it is necessary to create a file named `.env` in the root directory. If you need a token, generate one by following these instructions: [Creating a Bot Account](https://discordpy.readthedocs.io/en/latest/discord.html) (Note you need to enable the options under `Privileged Gateway Intents`)

```
TOKEN=xxx
```

### Project structure 

Inside the project you can find all bot features (like the mod tools) in the `cogs` directory. 
The database is represented by the models, which can be found in the `models` directory. 
For translations we use a `.yml` file which can be found in the `translations` directory.

```
Project
│
└───morpheushelper  
│   └───cogs
│   │    │   adventofcode.py
│   │    │   automod.py
│   │        ...
|   |
│   └───models
│        │   allowed_invite.py
│        │   aoc_link.py
│            ...
|
└───translations
    │   en.yml
        ...
```

### PyCharm configuration 

- Open PyCharm and go to `Settings` ➔ `Project: MorpheusHelper` ➔ `Python Interpreter`
- Open the menu `Python Interpreter` and click on `Show All...`
- Click on the plus symbol 
- Click on `Pipenv Environment`
- Select `Python 3.9` as `Base interpreter`
- Confirm with `OK`
- Change the working directory to root path  ➔ `Edit Configurations`  ➔ `Working directory`


Finally, please remember to mark the `morpheushelper` directory as `Sources Root` (right click on `morpheushelper` ➔ `Mark Directory as` ➔ `Sources Root`).


## Installation instructions

### using docker
```bash
# clone git repository
git clone https://github.com/Defelo/MorpheusHelper

# build docker image
sudo docker build -t defelo/morpheushelper MorpheusHelper

# adjust the docker-compose.yml file (e.g. with your discord token)
vim MorpheusHelper/docker-compose.yml

# start database and bot using docker-compose
sudo docker-compose -f MorpheusHelper/docker-compose.yml up -d
```

### local installation
```bash
# install pipenv
pip3 install pipenv

# create virtual environment and install requirements
pipenv install

# start the bot
pipenv run bot
```

### Environment variables
| Variable Name |                                   Description                                   | Default Value |
|:--------------|:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:--------------|
| TOKEN         | Discord Bot Token                                                               |               |
| LOG_LEVEL     | one of `DEBUG`, `INFO`, `WARNING`, `ERROR`, `CRITICAL`                          | `INFO`        |
| DB_HOST       | Hostname of the database server                                                 | `localhost`   |
| DB_PORT       | Port on which the database server is running                                    | `3306`        |
| DB_DATABASE   | Name of the database in which morpheushelper should store data.                 | `test`        |
| DB_USER       | Username for the database account                                               | `test`        |
| DB_PASSWORD   | Password for the database account                                               | `test`        |
| GITHUB_TOKEN  | GitHub Personal Access Token (PAT) with public access                           |               |
| SENTRY_DSN    | [Optional] Sentry DSN for logging                                               |               |
| OWNER_ID      | [Optional] Discord User ID of the person who should recieve status information. |               |
| DISABLED_COGS | [Optional] Cogs you'd like to disable.                                          |               |
| AOC_SESSION   | [Optional] Session cookie of the AOC Website                                    |               |
